Review configuration code astp (#5158)
Particular/docs.particular.net: persistence/azure-table/configuration_code_astp_[3,).partial.md

snippet: EnableInstallersConfigurationOptingOutFromTableCreation

### Partitioning and compatibility mode helpers

> During a given message handling pipeline, multiple data storage operations may occur. To commit them atomically, in a single transaction, they must share a partition key. In conversations involving a saga, the saga ID is a good candidate for a partition key. Unfortunately, saga IDs are determined late in the message handling process and are not exposed to user code.

Reviewer: I do like how this is rephrased, however, I think we should keep the information about how the Saga ID is determined that was in the original text

Author: This is now covered by the explanation of `IProvidePartitionKeyFromSagaId` below.

To atomically store data within the same transaction, all data written as part of the same message handling pipeline needs to share the same partition key.
When storing sagas, saga IDs are by default deterministically derived from the saga data: the correlation property name and the correlation property value. Therefore, in conversations concerning a saga as part of the message handling pipeline, this deterministically derived ID is a perfect fit to be used as a partition key. Unfortunately, the saga ID assignment happens quite late during the message handling process and is not exposed to the user code.
During a given message handling pipeline, multiple data storage operations may occur. To commit them atomically, in a single transaction, they must share a partition key. In conversations involving a saga, the saga ID is a good candidate for a partition key. Unfortunately, saga IDs are determined late in the message handling process and are not exposed to user code.

This makes it difficult to:

> * Support transactional processing for existing sagas that were stored with the previous version of the persister and may have in-flight messages

Author: > and may have in-flight messages

This is redundant. An existing saga that was stored with the previous version of the persister will only be acted upon as a result of a message, and it is irrelevant whether or not there are _other_ "in-flight" messages.

Reviewer 2: You can shut down and upgrade an endpoint at any time where scenarios like the following are possible:

- Shutdown during the existing inflight message for a saga and might not be handled and rolled back
- During shutdown messages that are destined to go to the saga instance are piling up in the queue to be processed after the endpoint starts
- Messages for the saga instance are already in the queue for the saga instance but not processed yet because the endpoint is shut down

These are the scenarios we summarized under in-flight.

Author: @danielmarbach those scenarios are all true, but how does "and may have in-flight messages" add any value to the sentence? The current version (in this PR) says:

> * Enable transactional saga data storage for existing sagas that were stored with the previous version of the persister.

Do we need more than that? This statement is true regardless of whether there are currently messages in the queue for the saga ("in-flight") or whether there will be messages sent to the saga in one year from now.

Author: Discussed with @danielmarbach and we agree that that the new bullet is OK.

> * Expose the deterministic saga ID early enough to enable business operations to participate in the transaction before the saga has been created

Author: > business operations

I believe it's better to avoid the term "business operations" as something distinct from "saga data" operations. Saga data may have just as much, if not more, "business" meaning than "other" data.

Reviewer 2: We used the term "business data" also in the blog post quite intensively

https://particular.net/blog/transactions-with-azure-table-persistence

which passed through editorial review. Do we have any consistency or something we could refer to see what we use in other docs?

Author: @danielmarbach regardless of what's used elsewhere, does the use of the term add any value to (the new version of) the bullet point? I.e.

> * Allow other data operations to participate in the saga data transaction.

vs

* Allow business operations to participate in the saga data transaction.

I find "other data operations" more precise, and less open to questions like: is X a business operation or not? Ultimately, it doesn't matter. The important point seems to be that other data operations, regardless of what they are, can participate in the saga data transaction.

Reviewer 2: Good arguments @adamralph. I'm 👍 for making the change

snippet: BehaviorUsingIProvidePartitionKeyFromSagaId

> `IProvidePartitionKeyFromSagaId` enables users to set the partition key based on one of the following:

Author: ```suggestion
`IProvidePartitionKeyFromSagaId` sets the partition key on the `IIncomingLogicalMessageContext` based on one of the following:
```

To support the above scenarios the `IProvidePartitionKeyFromSagaId` interface implementation can be injected into behaviors in the logical pipeline stage.
To support the above scenarios, `IProvidePartitionKeyFromSagaId` may be injected into behaviors at the logical pipeline stage:

snippet: BehaviorUsingIProvidePartitionKeyFromSagaId

This component enables users to:
`IProvidePartitionKeyFromSagaId` enables users to set the partition key based on of the following:

> * Derive the table in which business- and saga data will be stored by looking for the `TableInformation` or falling back to the default table

Author: This is irrelevant here. While the snippet shows it, it is self explanatory, and it is _not_ something provided by `IProvidePartitionKeyFromSagaId`.

Reviewer 2: This edit is incorrect. It is something provided by the helper tool

https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus.Persistence.AzureStorage/blob/master/src/NServiceBus.Persistence.AzureTable/SagaPersisters/ProvidePartitionKeyFromSagaId.cs#L28-L36

Author: @danielmarbach I see, but I think the way this is laid out here is confusing. The component doesn't _allow users to derive the table_.... The component allows users to pass a value which may or may not be used as the partition key based on an algorithm, and part of that algorithm reads the table name. The confusion is exacerbated by the fact that the code snippet shows the user examining the table without using `IProvidePartitionKeyFromSagaId`:

```C#
if (context.Extensions.TryGet<TableInformation>(out var tableInformation))
{
    Log.Debug($"Table Information: {tableInformation.TableName}");
}
```

Perhaps it's best if we jump on a call next week and thrash this out quickly.

Author: @danielmarbach and I will work out an edit

> * The deterministic `SagaId` precalculated by using the correlation property information

Author: Copied from the [XML docs](https://github.com/Particular/NServiceBus.Persistence.AzureStorage/blob/7fa201a3beff6e31ceb20423a44faed221c4d42c/src/NServiceBus.Persistence.AzureTable/SagaPersisters/IProvidePartitionKeyFromSagaId.cs#L15-L18).

If they are not good enough, they should be improved, and copied back in here again.

Reviewer 2: Who says the XML documents need to be the same as this text? I'm not aware of such a rule so I don't see why your proposal of copying the XML docs here is better than the text we have here nor why changing there is a mandate to keep both in sync.

Reviewer: As a developer, I appreciate the documentation providing more insight than just a pure copy of the XML docs. I see this text as an addition to any XML docs. However, if the XML docs are insufficiently clear, we should of course do something about that.

Author: > Who says the XML documents need to be the same as this text?

No-one I'm aware of. 🙂 I didn't want to imply that.

> I don't see why your proposal of copying the XML docs here is better than the text we have here

> I appreciate the documentation providing more insight than just a pure copy of the XML docs. I see this text as an addition to any XML docs

It's related to what I mentioned in my previous comment. I don't think this has to be a copy of the XML docs. As I said, probably best to thrash this out over a quick call next week.

Author: @danielmarbach and I will work out an edit

> * The `SagaId` header if present
> * The `SagaId` on the secondary index derived from the correlation property information when migration mode is enabled
> * The deterministic `SagaId` precalculated by using the correlation property information

Author: ```suggestion
* Sets the partition key on the `IIncomingLogicalMessageContext` based on the following algorithm:
  * Use the saga ID header value if present. Otherwise:
  * When compatibility mode is enabled, and the correlation property is not `SagaCorrelationProperty.None`, look up the saga ID either using the secondary index if present, or by table scanning the saga data if that is [enabled](/persistence/azure-table/configuration#saga-configuration). Otherwise:
  * Calculate the saga ID based on the specified correlation property.
* If the table in which all data, including saga data, will be stored is not [already set](persistence/azure-table/configuration#table-name-configuration-and-creation), set it using the saga data name as the table name.
```
